---
layout: page
title: AVS Hands-on Labs - Appendixes
permalink: /skilling/infrastructure/avs-hands-on-labs-appendixes
redirect_from:
- /azure/infrastructure/azure-vmware-solution/hands-on-labs/appendixes
showbreadcrumb: false
tags: 
 - azure
 - infrastructure
 - AVS
 - skilling
---

# Appendixes

## APPENDIX 1 – Azure VMware Solution Deployment

*The content in the appendix is added for reference in case you do have enough
time to do the AVS deployment yourself. You can in that case substitute LAB1
with the content below.*

You will deploy your AVS Private Cloud. This operation will take a minimum of
two hours so it’s better to launch it now and leave it deploying while you go
deeper into the AVS components and architecture.

### Prerequisites

Before deploying your AVS Private Cloud, keep in mind that you will need the
following:

- Azure account with an active subscription (of type CSP or Enterprise
  Agreement).

- Appropriate administrative rights within the subscription to create a
  Private Cloud.

- A /22 network address segment to be used by the AVS management components,
   which does not overlap with any other Azure or on-premises network.
  
  - The permitted ranges are the RFC 1918 private address spaces
    (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16), except for 172.17.0.0/16.

There is no need to provide passwords for vCenter cloudadmin and NSX-T admin
user, the deployment process will generate random passwords for both users that
can be retrieved securely later from the Azure portal.

### Create a Private Cloud

To be able to deploy an AVS Private Cloud you will need to register the AVS
resource provider first. From Azure portal open Azure CLI or in another browser
tab navigate to <https://shell.azure.com>.

In the shell, enter the command:

```powershell

az provider register -n Microsoft.AVS --subscription \<your subscription ID\>

```

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/cc132c21df464dea3ce057278765fd7c.png)

In the Azure portal select **Create a new resource** and search for **Azure
VMware Solution**, in the AVs window select **Create**.

![create new avs]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/dcd37da5bb0fe245b4b531bb55d6b362.png)

In the Create a Private Cloud window fill in the needed parameters.

- Subscription.

- Resource group. Create a new RG or select an existing one.

- Location.

- Resource name.

- SKU. AV36 is the only one available today.

- Number of ESXi nodes, move the slide or enter the number. See how the cost
  gets updated as new nodes are added or removed. As discussed begore the
  minimum supported is 3.

- Address block required for the AVS management components. The /22 CIDR
  network segment from the prerequisites.

- Virtual Network (optional for bare AVS deployment, will be used for Jumpbox
  later).
  
  The provisioning process gives you the possibility to create or select an
  Azure VNET, in this VNET a new ExpressRoute Gateway will be deployed, and
  the corresponding authentication keys produced and configured to access AVS
  environment from any workloads running on that VNET.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/8bd292b94b8cf7edcbf70c4b4eef3510.png)

For this Lab create a new VNET and make sure you create a **GatewaySubnet**
subnet.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/32a2a19ca9c62dc70e931d9620b15a96.png)

Finally go the **Review + create** screen, check that everything is validated
and select **Create**. The operation will take at least two hours to complete.
The status of the deployment can be monitored from Azure portal.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/3037a1d27da934a008ae515b1e85852d.png)

## APPENDIX 2 – Configure AVS Networking from NSX-T Manager

An AVS Private Cloud comes with NSX-T pre-deployed, as we have seen in the
previous sections, but no network segments are configured for the guest
workloads. The workloads require DHCP services for IP address assignments and a
network segment.

In this lab you will learn to:

- Create a DHCP server.

- Create a network segment.

### Create a DHCP server

From the Jumpbox desktop open Edge and access NSX-T manager as you did in the
previous lab. In NSX-T Manager UI select **Networking \> DHCP**, and then select
**Add Server**.

Select **DHCP** for the **Server Type**, provide the server’s name and IP
address, and then click **Save**.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/c50047f06ea4b5d6b40a3d78891c5c11.png)

Next in **Connectivity** select **Tier-1 Gateways**. Click on the vertical
ellipsis and select **Edit**, a configuration screen will open. Click on the
**No IP Allocation Set** link.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/7881c51d8b606d5d0f1601a593588d7f.png)

In the pop-up set the type to **DHCP Local Server** and select the DHCP server
and click **Save**.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/c1e3ebf014a7d12a5206de05f6c8f5c5.png)

Click on **Save** again and on **CLOSE EDITING**.

### Create network segment from NSX-T Manager

Go to **Networking** \> **Segments**, and then select **Add Segment**. In the
segment creation screen enter the name for the segment, select the Tier-1
Gateway as the **Connected Gateway** and leave the **Type** as **Flexible**.
Select the **Transport Zone** of type **Overlay**.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/4c21ebc7cff3990e3141edf2044cc8a2.png)

Click on **Set Subnets**. Enter and IP address for the gateway, remember that
the address needs to be on a non-overlapping RFC1918 address block. And enter an
IP address DHCP range. Select **ADD** and then **Apply**.

![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/3471c8b8ffd033bf0181ee4a498af478.png)

Finally click on **Save** and **No** to finish the creation of the segment.

## APPENDIX 3 - Deploy VMware Photon OS OVA from URL

If your content library is not ready, you can kick off deploying Photon OS OVA
directly from the URL as you can see in the steps below. After the wizards
starts (after step 2), the steps are common between deploying from Content
Library or deploying from URL directly, so you can refer to the VM deployment
Lab.

1. Go to Jumpbox, open **vSphere Client** (**vCenter**) and login into vCenter
   with [clouadmin@vsphere.local](mailto:clouadmin@vsphere.local) credentials.
   From the **Hosts & Clusters** screen right click in **Cluster-1** and select
   **Deploy OVF Template**.

   [TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/826d2493a8b8a9fe4af32ecee4c4b826.png)

2. In the pop-up screen make sure to select URL and enter the following address
   and click **Next**. The link is:
   <https://packages.vmware.com/photon/4.0/GA/ova/photon-hw13-uefi-4.0-1526e30ba0.ova>
   (223 MB).

   Accept the certificate, enter a name for the virtual machine and select a
   location. For the location leave the Virtual Datacenter.  

    ![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/c4d29e2d060cf2d754e6aee927fb1269.png)

## APPENDIX 4 – Configure DNS Forwarding through Conditional Forwarders

There is another way that allows you to achieve the same result that you
achieved in LAB3- Section 3. You can create a Conditional Forwarder instead of
forwarding all DNS traffic to Azure DNS virtual server.

1. Right click on **Conditional Forwarders** and click on **New Conditional
   Forwarder…**.

    ![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/5faa9c7e632faca2219f05d44dfa2dca.png)

2. In the **DNS Domain**, get the value from this article [Azure Private
   Endpoint DNS configuration \| Microsoft
   Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns#azure-services-dns-zone-configuration),
   specifically it’s the value in the Public DNS zone Forwarders. Of course,
   you’ll need to create a Conditional Forwarder to each service you are using.
   For example, for Storage Account Blob sub-system, you’ll choose:
   **blob.core.windows.net**. Under **IP address of the master servers,** you
   need put the IP of Azure DNS virtual server **168.63.129.16**. Click OK to
   create the Conditional Forwarder for Storage Blob service in this example.

    ![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/5215febe92fb25b6c0655b280234e1f4.png)

3. And that’s what you’ll get. Remember that you’ll need to do this for each
   service you are integrating with Azure Private Endpoint and creating an
   Azure Private DNS Zone for.

  ![TODO:]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/avs-hands-on-labs/appendixes/063a72551ad2914547c07ef8e9977fff.png)

## Next Steps

[Back to Table of Content]({{ site.baseurl }}/azure/infrastructure/azure-vmware-solution/hands-on-labs#table-of-contents)
